### Introduction | 引言

1. 介绍ABSA任务
2. 介绍跨语言ABSA任务前人进度
3. 介绍这篇文章的内容
4. 更细致地介绍文章内容
5. 介绍本文贡献

Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) has wide application in Web3.0 era. ABSA can get fine-grained sentiment analysis by two subtasks aspect extraction(AE) and aspect sentiment classification(ASC)((Liu, 2012; Pontiki et al., 2014). For instance, "The food is great, but the service is kind disappointing", the AE task should extract the aspect terms "food" and "service", and predict their corresponding sentiment polarities as positive and negative in ASC task. By using supervised models and labeled data, this taskhad achieved promising results.(参考文献). However, for this task, a crucial is problem is too difficulty in collecting enough labeled data to fine-tune pretrained model, especially for data-limited languages. Inspired by cross-domain ABSA, we will learn some knowledge from the souce language labeled data, and transfer the language-independent part knowlege to target language, then improve the model performance of the aspect extraction task in a target language.

---

【由于在某些语言上缺少数据，前人考虑将】For cross-langual ABSA tasks, it firstly need to map the semantics of different languages to the same vector space. Some prior studies utilze svd and xx method align different languages word embedding, This method can easily achieve better performance in zero shot scenario. With the development of cross language pretrained language models such as mBERT and XLM-Roberta, 【介绍前人工作】.【句法依赖和词法信息对ABSA任务有着重要的作用，upos标准揭示了不同语言之间也具有不同程度相似的句法信息】。在我们的工作中，我们希望迁移


Aspect extraction in supervised mono-lingual setting has been studied extensively [Qiu et al., 2011; Liu et al., 2015; Yin et al., 2016; Wang et al., 2016; 2017]. Most existing work treat this task as a sequence labeling problem that predicts a label for each token. It has also been shown that syntactic relations are crucial to identify target terms [Qiu et al., 2011; Yin et al., 2016; Wang et al., 2016]. Token-level knowledge transfer has been pro- posed for cross-domain aspect extraction [Li et al., 2012; Ding et al., 2017], where the models are built upon common sentiment lexicons. However, these methods only work for homogeneous space within the same language. Moreover, token-level knowledge is much more difficult to be trans- ferred across languages, because the segmentation rules may vary in different languages. For instance, an aspect can be expressed by a single word in one language but by multiple words in another language. To conquer this limitation, we adopt transition-based models, which have been used for de- pendency parsing [Dyer et al., 2015] and named entity recog- nition [Lample et al., 2016]. Different from sequence label- ing, transition-based models learn a sequence of actions that read words sequentially from a buffer and avoid the separa- tion of a phrase. These actions depend on the configuration representation at the previous timestamp. To transfer knowl- edge, we aim to learn a shared space for configurations from different languages.

The majority of existing ABSA studies are con- ducted on English texts. However, in real-world scenarios such as the E-commerce website, users’ opinions are usually expressed in different lan- guages (Pontiki et al., 2016; Keung et al., 2020). Manually annotating a large quantity of ABSA data for every language can be extremely costly. In this work, we investigate the unsupervised cross-lingual transfer for the ABSA task, where we only have labeled data in the source language and aim to transfer the knowledge to target languages whose labeled ABSA data is unavailable.

Currently, for some languages (e.g., English), there have been lots of sentiment resources available for conducting sentiment anal- ysis, including labeled corpora and sentiment lexicons [19]. How- ever, for other languages, sentiment resources are often insufficient or of low quality. Therefore, it is desirable to develop cross-lingual mechanisms so as to utilize the knowledge learning from those resource-rich languages to improve sentiment analysis in other lan- guages. In doing so, a direct approach is to translate the resources in the resource-rich language to the target language using a machine translation tool [1, 23]. However, it is known that machine transla- tion is a very challenging task and the existing machine translation system is thus not powerful enough to generate very accurate re- sults. Particularly, a machine translation system usually generates only one result, which may not be suitable for the situation therein.

There are some studies focused on the domain adaptation of fine-grained sentiment analysis. Ding et al. (Ding, Yu, and Jiang 2017) combined neural network with rule-based aux- iliary task for the domain adaptation of aspect extraction, which is only a subtask of ABSA. Wang and Pan (Wang and Pan 2018) presented a recursive neural network for cross- domain aspect and opinion co-extraction, which utilized the shared dependency structure between different domains. To alleviate the dependency on linguistic resources, Wang and Pan (Wang and Pan 2019) used local and global memory units to capture the transferable interactions of aspect and opinion terms. These researches merely focused on the de- tection of aspect and opinion terms, while ABSA also need to find out the correspondences between them. Li et al. (Li et al. 2019b) proposed a transferable neural network with se- lective adversarial training for cross-domain ABSA, which is the first attempt for the domain adaptation of ABSA. In their model, the unlabeled target data are used by the do- main discriminator to learn the common features across do- mains, while the task classifier is only trained on the source data. This leads the target data can not be utilized to refine the task classifier, even though these data may contain some beneficial aspect and sentiment information.
