### Modelling grammatical and lexical features for Cross-lingual Aspect Term Extraction
使用词法和句法特征进行跨语言细粒度情感词抽取


## 3 Problem Definition & Motivation

```
Wang 等。 - 2021 - Progressive Self-Training with Discriminator for A.pdf
Zhang 等。 - 2021 - Cross-lingual Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis with.pdf
Phan 等。 - 2021 - Exploring Zero-shot Cross-lingual Aspect-based Sen.pdf
2018 - Transition-based Adversarial Network for Cross-lin.pdf
```

### 3.1 Problem Definition

We formulate the aspect extraction task as a sequence token labeling problem (Li et al., 2019b; He et al., 2019).  Given a token sequence s = {t1, t2,..., tn} of length n, the ATE predicts every token in s with label y = {y1, y2,..., yn}, where yi 属与{B, I, E, O, S} denotes the aspect boundary. For example, yi = {B} means ti is the beginning of a aspect term. In the cross-lingual transfer, we train model in source language dataset D_s and eval model with target language dataset D_t, that means we have no target language label data. 

### 3.2 Motivation

mBERT、XLM、XLM-Roberta在跨语言语言表达上，具有十分优秀的效果，被应用到了很多跨语言任务中。这类模型由transformer结构堆叠而成，通过大量的训练数据训练得到；但使用task-agnostic的方式训练，模型并没有包含充分的句法和词法信息。

Mbert, XLM and XLM Roberta have excellent effects in cross language expression and have been applied to many cross language tasks. This kind of model is stacked by transformer structure and trained by a large number of training data; However, using task agnostic training, the model does not contain sufficient syntactic and lexical information.

x, WenYa [et al] show universal dependency relations is helpful for AE task in ransition-based mode. We want to model syntactic dependency relations and integrate it into XLMR. In addition, the lexical information also has certain similarity between different languages; in the other hand , lexical information is helpful for AE task. we also model it and integrate it into the transformer. Stanza is a cross-lingual natural language processing tools, we use it to get sentence's syntactic dependency relations and token's pos and ner features with universal dependency mode.