### Modelling grammatical and lexical features for Cross-lingual Aspect Term Extraction
使用词法和句法特征进行跨语言细粒度情感词抽取



### 4 The Proposed Model
```
介绍模型名称，介绍模型各个组件构成，介绍输入在各个组件的处理。
介绍本章子小结的内容。
对各个子模块的介绍，除了描述子模块的结构之外，还要描述为什么要那么处理。
```

We name our proposed model Enhancing Grammatical and Lexical Network(EGLN). The architecture of EGLN show in Figure 1, it consists of a classifier and three feature extractors: a backbone semantic encoder, a grammatical enhance network and a lexical enhance network. We use XLM-R as our backbone semantic encoder, Xlm-R has powerful cross language semantic coding ability; the grammatical enhancement network firstly constructs GNN through syntactic dependency graph, and inputs the obtained semantic feature into GNN, and we obtain syntactic enhanced semantic feature; the lexical enhancement network first obtains the POS of the tokens, then maps the POS into a embedding matrix, and will get token's POS information. Finally, we concatenate backbone semantic embedding, grammatical embedding and lexical embedding as final embedding, send it to classifier, we can get every token's type.

#### 4.1 Backbone Encoder

```
介绍一下模型的结构，介绍模型效果，介绍为什么用这个作为backbone。
```
We use XLM-Roberta-base as our model's backbone encoder, it is a large multi-lingual language model. XLM-Roberta-base has 12 hidden layers, outputs 768 dimensional tensors and 8 self attention heads, with a total of 125m parameters, trained with MLM task on 2.5TB of filtered CommonCrawl data, it has strong semantic coding performance. Moreover XLMR balances the performance between high resource language and low resource language, so that the effect of training in high resource language can be easily transferred to low resource language.

#### 4.2 Grammatical Enhancement Network
```
总：写为什么要使用句法增强，为什么在跨语言在能使用句法增强。
分：说明模型流程，及为什么要这么处理。
```
To enhance PTMs' grammatical information, we apply grammatical enhancement network to learn the representation of text syntactic dependency with XLM-R. Prior study has showed universal dependency relations are invariant across different languages, but PTMs with task-agnostic training method cause model lack syntactic dependency infomation. Indeed, syntactic dependency show the relation between target and other elements, it helps model to extract target.

Universal Dependencies (UD) is a across languages framework for consistent annotation of grammar (parts of speech, morphological features, and syntactic dependencies).[ 引用官网原文]，We firstly extract text's syntactic dependencies, An adjacency matrix is constructed through the table to represent the connection relationship between words.
then we constructed two adjacency matrices to represent the connection relationship between words; In matrix one, if word w1 is the parent of the dependency of word w2，the value that represent the relation between w1 and w2 will set True, otherwise the value will be setted False. In matrix two, the matrix value will be set True when word w1 is the son of the word w2, everything else is the same as matrix one. Graph can represent syntactic dependencies, and GNN can integrate graph information into embeddings. Finally, we send word adjacency matrices and backbone words embeddings into GCN, we can get the grammatical enhancement word embeddings named Ge.

### 4.3 Lexical Enhancement Network
```
总：写为什么要使用词法增强，为什么在跨语言中能使用词法增强。
分：说明模块的处理流程，及为什么要这么处理。
```

The previous model ignore the lexical information among the words, the target word has a great correlation with lexical infomation. For instances, Pos of speech information can help locate the boundary of the target word; Ner information can help judge whether a word is a target word. They are also useful in cross-lingual situation.

We created two embeddings to represent POS information and ner information of words respectively. If a word's pos tag is 'NOUN', we can find it' features by look up POS embedding table. Besides, we can get word's NER features by look up NER embedding table too. By using the embedded table, we can not only simplify the complex relationship between lexical information, but also facilitate the subsequent classification operation by concatenate the feature vector of words. Finally, we concatenate POS embedding feature and NER embedding feature as lexical features named Le.

### 4.4 Label classifier

We concatenate backbone encoder features、Ge embeddings features and Le embeddings features as finall words' feature vectors, and send them into label classifier, we will get the "BIEOS" label of each word.By using "BIEOS" tag, the extraction problem is transformed into classification problem. Only when the words in aspect terms and the sentiment for aspect are the same as the span of golden annotation, the extracted result is considered to be correct. The label classifier can calculate each label's probability by softmax function, and uses the cross entropy loss to optimize the model parameters.

