### Modelling grammatical and lexical features for Cross-lingual Aspect Term Extraction
使用词法和句法特征进行跨语言细粒度情感词抽取


```
5.1 数据集
- 写用了哪些数据集，怎么划分。使用这个数据集的依据是什么，评价指标是什么
5.2 实验设置
- 写自己模型的设置，训练过程的细节，优化函数、Batch Size、Epoch次数。
- 有模型各个结构，各个模型用了哪些现成工具的哪些部分。
5.3 实验结果
- 写对比了哪些baselines，用自己的话解释一下.
- 根据实验结果对比，写一段话
- 写消融实验
- 样例分析或可视化分析
```
### 5 Experiments

#### 5.1 Datasets
We conduct experiments on English, French and Spanish token from SemEval 2016 Task5. Statistics of the datasets are presented in Table 1. Following the recent work of cross-langual ATE(Wang), we construct six transfer pairs based on 3 languages mentioned above; We randomlyly hold out 10% train set as the development set for tuning hyper-parameters. The results are shown in macro F1 scores. For aspect extraction, when dealing with multi word aspect terms, only accurate matching is correct.

[插入数据表1]

#### 5.2 Experimental Setting
We use xlm-roberta-base as our backbone encoder, it have 12 layers transformers encoder, 768 hidden size and 12 multi-head attention. We use Stanford Stanza() to parse text with part-of-speect tags, ner tags and dependency trees. The whole network is trained with Adam optimizer(Kingma and Ba et al. 2014) with β1 = 0.9,β2 = 0.999, and learning rate = 4e-5. Batch size is set to 16, Epochs is set to 20. For learning rates, we adopt a StepLR schedule strategy, and set step to 4 and gamma to 0.7.

For grammatical enhancement network, we select the best training hyper-parameters by conducting a grid search on a combination of layer num and embedding size. The range of them are: layer num {2, 3, 4, 5}; embedding size {64, 96, 128, 192, 256, 320, 384}. For lexical enhancement network, as same as grammatical enhancement network, pos embedding {3, 5, 7, 8}; ner embedding {6, 8, 10, 12, 14}.  The top 3 choices are selected by the performance on the source language data. We run the experiments three times and report the average results.

#### 5.3 Experimental Results

To have a fair comparison, we record top-performing baselines of all cross-langual ATE tasks from (Wang).

- Translate-TAN, Translate-CRF: Use Google translator to translate the target data into the source language, and use the labeled source data to train TAN or linear chain CRF to predict the translated target data.
- NoAdp: The TAN model is trained only used the source data without adaptation, and then tested on the target data.
- A-RNN: A RNN [Liuetal.,2015] producing a hidden representation for each word with an adversarial network on the top.
- A-R2NN: Apply the model in [Wang et al., 2016] but replace CRF with RNN on top of the dependency-tree-based recursive neural network with an adversarial network on the top.
- CrossCRF: Linear chain CRF with cross domain similar non lexical features. In the cross language environment, [Wang] use universal POS tags, sentiment lexicons, universal dependencies etc.
- CL-DSCL: A deep model with structural correspondence learning proposed by [Ding et al., 2017] with universal dependencies and sentiment lexicons for all three languages.
- TAN: A novel transition-based deep network model for cross language aspect extraction, which integrates domain confrontation network and syntax information.
- Pure XLM-R: Zero shot using pure XLM Roberta Model.


"Main Results." The comparison results are shown in Table 2. Obviously, the proposed model TAN achieves the state-of-the-art results most of the time with large performance gain. From the results we find that EGL-XLMR consistently outperforms the other approaches on all the transfer tasks. Specifically, our approach achieves xx% improvements over the state-of-the-art method TAN on average F1 score. Because ofother models don't use PTMs as encoder, for a fair comparison, we also use pure xlm-roberta to do comparative experiment. From the results, we can observe that EGL-XLMR performs better than TAN, which demonstrates the effectiveness of our method.

"Ablation Study". To show the effect of each component, we perform comparison between the full EGL model and its ablations as shown in Table x. 
The EGL -EG: Remove the grammatical enhancement network from full model. This module does not contain syntactic dependency information.
The EGL -LG: Remove the lexical enhancement network from full model. This module does not contain lexical information such as NER and POS.

